# 9) Policies

## 9.1) Acceptable Use Policy
- 9.1.1 proprietary information stored on electronic and computing devices whether owned or leased by , the employee or a third party, remains the sole property of . You must ensure through legal or technical means that proprietary information is protected in accordance with the Data Protection Standard.
- 9.1.2 You have a responsibility to promptly report the theft, loss, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information.
- 9.1.3 For security and network maintenance purposes, authorized individuals within may monitor equipment, systems, and network traffic at any time, per Infosec's Audit Policy.
## 9.2) Anti-Virus Policy
- 9.2.1 Always run the Corporate standard, supported anti-virus software is available from the corporate download site. Download and run the current version; download and install anti-virus software updates as they become available.
- 9.2.2 Back-up critical data and system configurations on a regular basis and store the data in a safe place
## 9.3) Communication Equipment Policy
- 9.3.1 The security features necessary to minimize risks to communication equipment must be configured in the equipment before it is placed into service. There are two possible roles for the staff that manages the communication equipment: monitoring and administrator. The monitoring role has read only privileges. The administrator role is able to change configuration parameters. All issued commands by users will be recorded, as well as any other security events that may pose a threat to the equipment.
- 9.3.2 All information transmitted from the device must be encrypted by a strong encryption algorithm to minimize the risks of eavesdropping on the communications and man-in-the-middle attacks.
## 9.4) Database Credential Policy
- 9.4.1 In order to maintain the security of FAST-NUCES's internal databases, access by software programs must be granted only after authentication with credentials. The credentials used for this authentication must not reside in the main, executing body of the program's source code in clear text or easily reversible encryption. Database credentials must not be stored in a location that can be accessed through a web server.
## 9.5) Email Policy
- 9.5.1 All use of email must be consistent with policies and procedures of ethical conduct, safety, compliance with applicable laws and proper business practices.
- 9.5.2 email account should be used primarily for businessrelated purposes; personal communication is permitted on a limited basis, but non- related commercial uses are prohibited.
## 9.6) Email Retention Policy
- 9.6.1 General Correspondence covers information that relates to customer interaction and the operational decisions of the business. The individual employee is responsible for email retention of General Correspondence.
## 9.7) Internet Use Monitoring Policy
- 9.7.1 Web Site Monitoring The Information Technology Department shall monitor Internet use from all computers and devices connected to the corporate network. For all traffic the monitoring system must record the source IP Address, the date, the time, the protocol, and the destination site or server. Where possible, the system should record the User ID of the person or account initiating the traffic. Internet Use records must be preserved for 180 days.
- 9.7.2 Internet Use Filtering System The Information Technology Department shall block access to Internet websites and protocols that are deemed inappropriate for ’s corporate environment. The following protocols and categories of websites should be blocked: • Adult/Sexually Explicit Material • Advertisements & Pop-Ups • Chat and Instant Messaging • Gambling • Hacking • Illegal Drugs • Intimate Apparel and Swimwear • Peer to Peer File Sharing • Personals and Dating • Social Network Services • SPAM, Phishing and Fraud • Spyware • Tasteless and Offensive Content • Violence, Intolerance and Hate • Web Based Email
## 9.8) Ethics Policy
- 9.8.1 Executive Commitment to Ethics: Executives must disclose any conflict of interests regard their position within .
- 9.8.2 Company Awareness: Promotion of ethical conduct within interpersonal communications of employees will be rewarded.
## 9.9) Information Logging Policy
- 9.9.1 Activities to be logged: 4.2.1 Create, read, update, or delete confidential information, including confidential authentication information such as passwords; 4.2.2 Create, update, or delete information not covered in #1; 4.2.3 Initiate a network connection; 4.2.4 Accept a network connection; 4.2.5 User authentication and authorization for activities covered in #1 or #2 such as user login and logout; 4.2.6 Grant, modify, or revoke access rights, including adding a new user or group, changing user privilege levels, changing file permissions, changing database object permissions, changing firewall rules, and user password changes; 4.2.7 System, network, or services configuration changes, including installation of software patches and updates, or other installed software changes; 4.2.8 Application process startup, shutdown, or restart; 4.2.9 Application process abort, failure, or abnormal end, especially due to resource exhaustion or reaching a resource limit or threshold (such as for CPU, memory, network connections, network bandwidth, disk space, or other resources), the failure of network services such as DHCP or DNS, or hardware fault; and 4.2.10 Detection of suspicious/malicious activity such as from an Intrusion Detection or Prevention System (IDS/IPS), anti-virus system, or anti-spyware system.
## 9.10) Internet Usage Policy
- 9.10.1 Internet usage is granted for the sole purpose of supporting business activities necessary to carry out job functions. All users must follow the corporate principles regarding resource usage and exercise good judgment in using the Internet. Questions can be addressed to the IT Department. Acceptable use of the Internet for performing job functions might include: • Communication between employees and non-employees for business purposes; • IT technical support downloading software upgrades and patches; • Review of possible vendor web sites for product information; • Reference regulatory or technical information. • Research
## 9.11) Password Construction Policy
- 9.11.1 Strong passwords are long, the more characters a password has the stronger it is. We recommend a minimum of 16 characters in all work related passwords. In addition, we encourage the use of passphrases, passwords made up of multiple words. Examples include “It’s time for vacation” or “block-curious-sunny-leaves”. Passphrases are both easy to remember and type yet meet the strength requirements.
## 9.12) Password Protection Policy
- 9.12.1 Passwords must not be shared with anyone, including supervisors and coworkers. All passwords are to be treated as sensitive, Confidential information. Corporate Information Security recognizes that legacy applications do not support proxy systems in place
## 9.13) Remote Access Policy
- 9.13.1 It is the responsibility of employees, contractors, vendors and agents with remote access privileges to 's corporate network to ensure that their remote access connection is given the same consideration as the user's on-site connection to .
## 9.14) Software Installation Policy
- 9.14.1 Employees may not install software on computing devices operated within the network.
- 9.14.2 Software requests must first be approved by the requester’s manager and then be made to the Information Technology department or Help Desk in writing or via email.
- 9.14.3  Software must be selected from an approved software list, maintained by the Information Technology department, unless no selection on the list meets the requester’s need.
- 9.14.4 The Information Technology Department will obtain and track the licenses, test new software for conflict and compatibility, and perform the installation.
## 9.15) Server Security Policy
- 9.15.1 All internal servers deployed at must be owned by an operational group that is responsible for system administration. Approved server configuration guides must be established and maintained by each operational group, based on business needs, and approved by the InfoSec team. Operational groups should monitor configuration compliance and implement an exception policy tailored to their environment. Each operational group must establish a process for changing the configuration guides, which includes review and approval by InfoSec. The following items must be met: • Servers must be registered within the corporate enterprise management system. At a minimum, the following information is required to positively identify the point of contact: o Server contact(s) and location, and a backup contact o Hardware and Operating System/Version o Main functions and applications, if applicable • Information in the corporate enterprise management system must be kept up to date. • Configuration changes for production servers must follow the appropriate change management procedures
## 9.16) Virtual Private Network Policy
- 9.16.1 It is the responsibility of employees with VPN privileges to ensure that unauthorized users are not allowed access to internal networks.
- 9.16.2 VPN use is to be controlled using either a one-time password authentication such as a token device or a public/private key system with a strong passphrase.
- 9.16.5 VPN gateways will be set up and managed by network operational groups.
- 9.16.10 Only Infosec-approved VPN clients may be used.